Add background for whole and subunit vaccines (#871)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/22.vaccines.md

### Inactivated Whole Virus Vaccines

<!--Rephrase to match figure? Or rephrase figure?-->

> This type of vaccine uses a "killed" full viral particle to prime the immune system.

Reviewer: Should we defined "killed"? I was going to but then realized I'm not totally sure what it means -- do they chop it up somehow? Denature it? I can't think of how else you'd "kill" a virus!

Author: It looks like viruses are commonly killed chemically which is what the next line is supposed to describe. Do you think there should be more detail here? Or perhaps I'm misunderstanding something..

Reviewer 2: "These types of vaccines use full virus particles that have been rendered non-infectious by chemical or physical means. These virus particles are said to be inactivated but they still have the capacity to prime the immune system." I would suggest this maybe^^

You can't kill a virus from my understanding? just inactivate as they are technically not living (a whole other debate)

> The virus is killed using formaldehyde or $beta$-propiolactone [@doi:10.1080/14760584.2017.1357471].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The virus is killed using formaldehyde or &beta;-propiolactone [@doi:10.1080/14760584.2017.1357471].
```
We've had issues with Greek letters not rendering at various points in the manuscript building process, so I'm going to suggest sticking with the one I know works even though I'm sure there are probably other ways to get there as well 😆

The size of the virus particle makes it ideal for uptake by antigen presenting cells (APC), which leads to stimulation of helper T-cells [@doi:10.1038/nri2868].
Additionally, the array of epitopes on the surface of the virus increases antibody binding efficiency [@doi:10.1038/nri2868].
The native conformation of the surface proteins, which is also important for eliciting an immune response, is preserved using this technique.
Membrane proteins, which support B-cell response to surface proteins, are also included using this method [@doi:10.1084/jem.164.4.1114]. 

> Overall, the vaccine is able to mimics the key properties of the virus to stimulate a robust immune response, with reduced risk of adverse reactions since virus is dead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, the vaccine is able to mimic the key properties of the virus that stimulate a robust immune response, but the risk of adverse reactions is reduced because the virus is dead.
```

> Some common successful whole virus vaccine include targeting influenza viruses, poliovirus and hepatits A virus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some common successful whole virus vaccine include targeting influenza viruses, poliovirus, and hepatits A virus.
```

### Inactivated Whole Virus Vaccines

<!--Rephrase to match figure? Or rephrase figure?-->
This type of vaccine uses a "killed" full viral particle to prime the immune system.

> The virus is killed using formaldehyde or &beta;-propiolactone [@doi:10.1080/14760584.2017.1357471].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The virus is inactivated using formaldehyde or &beta;-propiolactone [@doi:10.1080/14760584.2017.1357471].
```

The size of the virus particle makes it ideal for uptake by antigen presenting cells (APC), which leads to stimulation of helper T-cells [@doi:10.1038/nri2868].
Additionally, the array of epitopes on the surface of the virus increases antibody binding efficiency [@doi:10.1038/nri2868].

> The native conformation of the surface proteins, which is also important for eliciting an immune response, is preserved using this technique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The native conformation of the surface proteins, which is also important for eliciting an immune response, is preserved using these techniques.
```

Membrane proteins, which support B-cell response to surface proteins, are also included using this method [@doi:10.1084/jem.164.4.1114]. 

> Overall, the vaccine is able to mimic the key properties of the virus that stimulate a robust immune response, but the risk of adverse reactions is reduced because the virus is dead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overall, these vaccines are able to mimic the key properties of the virus that stimulate a robust immune response, but the risk of adverse reactions is reduced because the virus is inactivated, thus unable to replicate.
```

> Some common successful whole virus vaccine include targeting influenza viruses, poliovirus, and hepatits A virus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some common successful whole virus vaccine include targeting influenza viruses, poliovirus, and hepatitis A virus.
```

### Protein Subunit Vaccines

<!--Do we need to add this to the figure? Or does it fall in one of the other categories?-->

> Compared to the _inactivated whole virus vaccine_, these protein subunit vaccines isolate a single protein of the virus and use it to stimulate the immune system.

Reviewer: Is there a reason to italicize this? Just checking!

Author: Its italicized because I was referring to the earlier section header. But perhaps this is not the best way to do that. I don't want to confuse the reader having it italicized.

> These proteins, also referred to as antigens, are usually those located on the surface of the viral particle and therefore key targets of the immune system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These proteins, also referred to as antigens, are usually those located on the surface of the viral particle and are therefore key targets of the immune system.
```

These proteins are typically grown in yeast and then harvested.

> Because the vaccine contains only the purified antigens, the vaccine can only stimulate an antibody response [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4615-1823-5].

Reviewer: perhaps add a clause like "in contrast to other types of vaccines that are able to stimulate helper T-cells" (and maybe B cells? I don't know enough about this)

> The main advantage of this method is that they are considered very safe  since the anteigen alone cannot cause an infection, however the immune response is weaker and usually an adjuvant is needed to boost the response [@doi:10.1517/14712598.2011.573624].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main advantage of this method is that they are considered very safe because the antigen alone cannot cause an infection; however, the immune response is weaker and an adjuvant is usually needed to boost the response [@doi:10.1517/14712598.2011.573624].
```

### Protein Subunit Vaccines

<!--Do we need to add this to the figure? Or does it fall in one of the other categories?-->

> Compared to the inactivated whole virus vaccine, these protein subunit vaccines isolate a single protein of the virus and use it to stimulate the immune system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compared to the inactivated whole virus vaccines, these protein subunit vaccines isolate a single protein of the virus and use it to stimulate the immune system.
```

These proteins, also referred to as antigens, are usually those located on the surface of the viral particle and are therefore key targets of the immune system.
These proteins are typically grown in yeast and then harvested.

> This vaccine can stimulate antibodies and CD4+ T-cell response [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4615-1823-5].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This vaccine can stimulate antibodies and CD4^+^ T-cell response [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4615-1823-5].
```
